[Music]
good morning to you and welcome to
breakfast with dan walker and louise
mentioned
headlines for you at six o'clock this
morning ministers admit free food
parcels for children must urgently
improve as the mother who sparked the
row tells the programme
why she shared this photo
as i unpacked that food parcel in my
living room
and looked at the contents it felt
very sad changes to covert restrictions
in scotland
tighter rules on takeaways and shopping
are expected
the impact of the pandemic on intensive
care staff a new report
shows high levels of stress depression
and anxiety
i personally cry when i get home quite a
lot actually at the moment
sleep we're suffering with sleep
problems i think a lot of nurses and
doctors at the moment as well good
morning more of the big supermarkets
toughen their stance on shoppers wearing
masks but what about the workers who
have to enforce the rules
can confrontations like this be avoided
i'll take a look at the details
good morning manchester united our top
of the premier league paul pogba's
volley helps them beat burnley but calls
to respect
social distancing rules during
celebrations are ignored
good morning it is a cloudy gray day out
there with rain for many of us there'll
be some sleet and some snow over the
hills as well
i'll have all your weather details
throughout this morning's programme
[Music]
all that's come for you on wednesday the
13th of january let's start with our top
story though and caterers have been told
to urgently improve the quality of food
parcels being sent out to some of
england's poorest
children it's after images of the
packages were shared by parents
online the children's minister called
the provisions unacceptable
and said they do not reflect the high
standard expected of free school meals
keith doyle reports as i unpacked that
food parcel in my living room
and looked at the contents it felt
very sad and very depressing and
one of my children came in and saw me
laying this out on the floor and asked
why
and i said i was going to picture it
because i didn't think it looked like a
lot
and i could see the child's realization
that this is what i've been given to eat
for a week and just the sense of sadness
where has the rest of the food gone you
know this is meant to be a week's food
why is it so mean this
is the reaction to the free school meals
food parcel
this mom received to feed her children
sarah who does not want to be identified
to protect her two children
is disabled and relies on free school
meals
reaction to sarah's tweet was swift on
social media
with the footballer marcus rashford who
has campaigned for free school meals
reposting what other families said they
had received
government guidelines say school meals
should contain items which parents can
use
to prepare healthy lunches across the
week
they were replaced with vouchers during
previous lockdowns in england
but because suppliers were contracted to
provide meals before the current
national lockdown was announced they've
been sending food parcels instead
after meeting the company at the center
of this row the minister for children
vicki ford
said the government will be demanding
that all caterers meet the standards set
and are delivering high quality lunches
to eligible children
by doing this we will make sure every
one of them receives a healthy and
nutritious lunch
that will give them the fuel they need
to focus on learning at home
chartwells the company which supplied
this parcel is not the only uk supplier
it said it would refund the costs where
any parcels did not meet their usual
high standard
and it would be contacting every school
to understand where any shortages may
have occurred
and apologize to anyone affected it went
on to say
it will ensure every penny goes into the
provision of the food
for sarah that's a move in the right
direction
it's a very positive step that they're
going to look at
where gaps have occurred why they have
occurred and seek to resolve them
you know that's great to see that
progress
the government says vouchers worth 15
pounds per week per child
will be available from next week and it
will give further details later today
keith doyle bbc news first minister of
first minister nicholas sturgeon is to
announce whether any further coronavirus
restrictions will be imposed in scotland
after the death toll past five thousand
the scottish cabinet has been discussing
if changes should be made to take away
and click and collect services
conor gillies has more
travel news now for those of you who
have to be out
and cueing traffic on the northbound
m-74
the streets and roads are not as silent
as last spring
not as quiet as the politicians may like
with hospitals under sustained
significant pressure
more restrictions are being muted
this is what's causing concern cues and
gathering
one coffee shop owner closed his place
down
over covered fears as a business owner
we found it extremely difficult
to to to work you know and police things
like
cues and social distancing
effectively without actually you know
taking a a very
a very strong sort of forefront approach
our staff are often out in the street
trying to sort of
sort out people and ask them not to
crowd in the payment and so on
click and collect may be tightened and
the advice on takeaways
squeezed we're asking people to stay at
home except for essential purposes
um but people can still go for take away
still go into places for takeaway now
it may not be about saying you can't
have take away at all but do we need to
tighten up how that operates just to
limit the potential for people coming
together
inside a cough is the most obvious
spread of covid
one expert reckons three metre social
distancing
would help but the data continues to
show a positive case
is more likely to have gone to a
supermarket than anywhere else
that weighs heavy here in greenwich
where two workers died
after contracting the virus i just dare
you for everybody asking myself
i don't talk to anybody i i just keep
away from people
i'm i'm all right i mean i i take all my
precautions
you know i hand sanitize my mask on um
and i think that's all anybody can do
and here in lanarkshire another sign of
how serious it all is
all non-urgent surgical procedures being
postponed
amid fears covered hospital numbers
could double
lock down lifting at the end of january
now highly
unlikely as this crisis continues
conor gillis bbc news
nearly half of intensive care staff in
england could be suffering from
post-traumatic stress disorder severe
anxiety or problem drinking according to
new research
king's college london spoke to more than
700 icu staff during the first wave of
the pandemic last summer
the study found poor mental health was
common in intensive care clinicians
particularly amongst nurses
a number of senior figures within
president trump's republican party are
now prepared to support efforts to
remove him from
office democrats who accused mr trump of
inciting last week's violence
uh violent attack on washington's
capital are likely to push
for a vote later today in the house of
representatives from washington let's
get more from our correspondent
barbara usher just one week after the
deadly attack on the capitol building
the house is racing to impeach donald
trump for inciting it
the president's actions demonstrate his
absolute
inability to charge the most basic and
fundamental powers and duties of his
office
therefore the president must be removed
from office
immediately first though democrats
pushed the vice president mike pence to
take action
to invoke the constitution and declare
mr trump unfit to govern
he won't do that he warned this move
would further inflame the nation
but some republicans have begun to
abandon the president
including the third ranking member in
the house liz cheney
they say they will vote to impeach the
dam is beginning to
break mr trump hasn't made it any easier
for his party
venturing out of the white house for the
first time since the riot
he showed no remorse accepted no
responsibility
the impeachment hoax is a continuation
of the greatest and most vicious witch
hunt
in the history of our country and is
causing tremendous anger and division
and pain
far greater than most people will ever
understand
which is very dangerous for the usa
especially
at this very tender time in washington
it's lawmakers who are getting angrier
as growing evidence shows how brutal the
mob
was in a sweeping investigation dozens
have been charged
hundreds might be and security officials
are bracing for more violence
ahead of joe biden's inauguration they
warn of plans for armed protests
even a plot to try and overthrow the
government
the country is reaping the whirlwind of
donald trump's presidency
and today marks a pivotal step in its
dramatic
end mr trump is facing the unprecedented
stigma of a second impeachment
and his fractured party is facing a
traumatic moment of reckoning
barbara platt usher bbc news washington
we've got some good news for you i was
so delighted when i saw this
um earlier this week oh yes we told you
about penny the dog who was stolen from
her owner alan chamberlain
two days before christmas well the good
news is
look at this they've been reunited penny
looks very pleased to be back home with
alan
who lives near walter and uh she's
getting spoiled rotten at the moment as
well
and he's got a message for everyone who
offered support and helped
with the search thank you
to everybody and
we just can't say it enough and
as you can see she's happy to be home as
well i think
it it's the beginning of my new year
anyway
i'm back to life um
i'm over the moon i think she's over the
moon as well
she certainly looks it and it was do you
remember we were talking about it on
monday and he was so sad on christmas
day that he was sobbing in a tea towel
so his neighbors wouldn't hear him
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc
dot co dot uk forward slash news follow
the story for all the latest with bbc
news